---
layout: post
title: And sometimes I write
description: An opinion piece I wrote about climate change
image: assets/images/pic02.jpg
---

No matter where your stance is among the global warming debate, one thing is apparent: extreme events like droughts, floods, hurricanes are more frequent. In the past years, hyperactive hurricanes rampaged the globe, displaced and killed thousands of people, causing billions worth of damage.
Nature is at odds with humans. In just 2 years, natural disasters swept away the global community’s effort to fight against hunger. Around the globe, about 815 million people – 11 percent of the world’s population – went hungry in 2016. A recent U.N. report shows that hunger is on the rise again for the first time in 15 years.
According to new U.N. report, simply making agriculture more productive will not be enough to reach food security targets. It’s also essential to support smallholder farmers from developing countries and vulnerable parts of the planet.
Footages of the recent hurricane Damrey in Vietnam this November struck me hard: as a family from the Central region of the country evacuating when the storm hits, they are struggling to get a cow onboard. They don’t bring any personal belongings because honestly, they don’t have any. The cow is both their lifeline and life savings. This cycle goes on: smallholder farmers try to rebuild their lives while getting hit again and again by natural disasters. Every time after a hurricane season, the number of school-dropouts rocket. What could possibly be the reason? Young children have to stay home to work and support their families that don’t have enough food.
Even though Vietnam suffers from an annual monsoon season, the weather pattern is out of wack. In the last four months of 2017, four named hurricanes hit the country just since mid-September, all with high destruction. In Asia alone, typhoons are more intense than ever. The proportion of storms of a Category 4 and 5, ones that wreak the most damage, in the western Pacific is rising because of warmer coastal waters.
Half-way across the globe, while Haitians are still struggling to bounce back from hurricane Matthew in 2016 and previous droughts from 2014, hurricane Irma hit them hard. It’s estimated that the country needs a decade to economically recover. A decade won’t be all it takes when half of the population is agriculture-dependent and trapped in a vicious cycle of disasters that are projected to be even more likely in the future.
People who are affected the most by climate change are at the same time the least equipped to respond and recover from it. With limited access to services and absence of markets or credit, there’s

little they can do to maintain food production or food security. Most of these people are under poor governance or inappropriate policies, and with educational barriers, they are trapped in poverty and hunger.
In face of crises, it’s hard to think about what’s happening out of one’s sphere. Even when thousands of people dying in South Asia floods fail to catch your attention, their woes can very likely to have wide-reaching effects on your life. The increasing interconnectivity makes the world’s food chain extremely vulnerable. Increase floods and hurricane does not impact the affected population but can put a shock on the global food supply. Most notably is rice - the international rice market has historically always been dominated by few exporters notably Thailand, Vietnam and, India – those that are expected to be suffering from increasing disasters. Despite only means higher prices for food in more well-off countries like the US or countries in Europe, for developing countries that rely heavily on imports, the supply shortage could be a matter of life and death. It takes up not only 50% of the calories for Asia’s poor population but is also a major staple of African diets. African importers suffer most from unreliable international markets. In the past, West African countries were the ones who suffer the most from the rice export ban in Thailand.
We are now in one of the most challenging times in history, but the problems facing us are manageable; they are solvable. Just from 1990 and 2015, the world’s collective efforts have cut the proportion of undernourished people in half. When each of us takes the personal responsibility to help out, the future of UN’s Sustainable Development Goal to end hunger entirely by 2030 may not look so grim. Like political scientist Ian Bremmer says, “Times like this mean that we just have to do more. We show our best when we’re challenged.”
